From its very beginnings the Internet became a crucial part of each and any infrastructure. Similar to the discoveries of electricity, microorganisms or elementary particles, the creation of the Internet has turned a new page in the history of humanity.
The history of the Internet has begun in the middle of the 20th century as a result of rapid development of computer science. Computers of that age were still relatively underperforming and needed constant maintenance. Some kind of an effective and automated method of time-sharing between users needed to be devised and implemented for them to work reliably.
The first idea that had emerged from that necessity was a concept of multi-tasking. Nowadays we don’t pay much attention to the fact that our computers perform many tasks at once, and that with our computers we can, for example, work and listen to music at the same time. But in the 1950s this idea turned out to be revolutionary.
The second idea would be a proposition to merge multiple computers into a single network. Each participant1 of such a network would be able to exchange data with the others. But the exact mechanism of implementation was still largely a mystery. Roughly for ten years the scientists were developing and discarding all kinds of ideas, one after another, preserving those that could be at least somewhat handy bit by bit. This is how the prototypes of packet exchange protocols (as well as the concept of a data packet itself) came to be.
In 1969 a duo of American engineers, Robert Taylor and Lawrence Roberts, have made a presentation to the U. S. Department of Defence with a project dubbed2 ARPANET (which stands for Advanced Research Projects Agency Network) founded on the previous research. Even more advanced networks have started to develop based on this one, including what would be later known as ‘networks of networks’. These researches have culminated with the emergence3 of two main network protocols (TCP and IP), which are still used as of today with some modifications.
A modern solution that eventually replaced ARPANET was called NSFNET, which was the National Science Foundation Network. This particular network has adopted the TCP/IP protocol as its main one, and also helped the emergence of the Domain Name System (DNS). And thus when the 1990s have arrived, the Internet architecture as we know it was largely in place.
One should make a distinction between terms ‘the Internet’ and ‘the World Wide Web’. The first one relates to the network architecture in itself4. The second one is more of a modern development and constitutes an interface that allows the access to a network for a user. It emerged in 1990 courtesy of CERN scientists, Tim Berners-Lee in particular. He was the inventor of terms such as HTTP, HTML, and also of a web browser.
In 2020 nearly 4,5 billion people are using the Internet both for work and communication. The Internet is a cornerstone of all modern banking, of the vital infrastructure automated systems, and also of many computer science branches. This promising technology still continues its development nowadays, and for now we can’t even fathom5 what new discoveries this further development can bring.
The story of the jet airliner - an invention that changed the way we live     
    For millions of people, particularly in the United States of America, boarding a jet plane for a quick journey to a city many hundreds or even thousands of miles away, is very much a routine act... or at least it was until Covid-19 struck. More than any other object, the jet airliner is the machine that served to “shrink the globe”, bringing in the modern age of international travel and international economies; yet it was only in the 1950s that the first commercial jet passenger plane took to the skies.
The first Comet
1952 - The world's first commercial jet service prepares to take off.
Radlett, near London; April 1951; with a deafening roar, a great shining silver aeroplane hurtles down the runway outside the De Havilland Company's huge hangers on this airfield just north of London; a minute later, the world's first jetliner, the Comet, is airborne for the first time as the property of a commercial airline, B.O.A.C, the precursor of today's British Airways.
    At that moment, few of those on the ground watching the historic take-off could have had any idea of the impact that this new invention was going to have on civilisation in the second half of the twentieth century.
Yet without the jet plane to carry passengers over vast distances at high speed, be they businessmen, holidaymakers, politicians or even whole armies, the world in which we now live would be a very different place.
The Comet that took to the skies that day in 1951, after a year of test flights, was of course not the first jet plane.
It was in the year 1930 that an English engineer called Frank Whittle hadpatented the first jet engine; but in an all-too common British twentieth-century manner, Whittle and others failed to grasp the commercial and military potential of his invention, and it was a German company, Heinkel, who actually produced the first jet aircraft, in 1937.
The first British jet aircraft to fly was an adapted version of the Gloster E-28 in 1941; but in the fever of the war years, priority was given not to developing experimental aircraft, but to mass producing those propellor planes, such as the famous Spitfire, whose performance was guaranteed. So it was not until 1944 that the world's first two real jet aircraft appeared, the Messerschmitt Me 262 in Germany, and the Gloster Meteor in England.
In the immediate post-war years, with the German aircraft industry out of action, development of jet aircraft technology progressed rapidly in Britain, as did aircraft design in general; and within three years of the ending of the war, the De Havilland company was working on its great project, the first passenger jetliner.
A year after being handed over to BOAC, the Comet entered commercial service, with a flight from London to Johannesburg; but it was a premature beginning. Within two years, two Comets crashed in mysterious circumstances, and all existing planes were grounded. The cause of the problem was soon identified: it was metal fatigue, a problem that had not existed with the smaller lighter aircraft of earlier times.
By 1955, a solution had been found, Comets were able to take to the skies again, and transatlantic jet services were reintroduced between London and major destinations; this time, the age of jet air travel had really begun.
The first Comet
1974 - One of the last Comets still in service, with historic "low-cost" airline Dan-Air.
    A pioneering aircraft, the Comet however was not a big commercial success. Over in the USA, Boeing had been working on an American jetliner, and within weeks of the reintroduction of Comet services by BOAC, the first Boeing 707’s came into service. Stimulated by sales on the vast North American market, the 707 was soon established as the world’s leading jetliner, pushing Boeing to the top as undisputed world leader in its field.
    The Comet, France’s Caravelle, and later Britain’s Vickers VC 10, products of sophisticated but small national aerospace industries, could not hope to compete in the world markets against the domination of Boeing; and it was their relative failure that eventually forced national governments to support the creation of Europe’s first really successful manufacturer of jetliners, the Airbus Consortium.
    Today, thanks to a steady increase in the size of aircraft and an improvement in their efficiency, the cost of air travel has fallen by over 80% since the first Comet flights half a century ago. Once the exclusive reserve of a privileged few, air travel has become a very ordinary event, and in North America at least, something that is considerably more of a part of everyday life than taking the train.
    Thanks to cheap and rapid air travel, allowing businessmen and politicians to travel vast distances at relative ease, the nature of trade and international relations has changed profoundly. Sixty years ago, international meetings of heads of state were rare events; today they are daily occurrences; sixty years ago, few people from Northern Europe had ever seen the Mediterranean, and today’s holiday resorts like Torremolinos or Cap d'Agde were just sleepy fishing ports; in military terms, the idea of a “rapid reaction force” was unheard of. But maybe the Golden Age of the jet plane is already behind us. Concorde, the fabulous supersonic "white bird" has come and gone; and since Covid appeared, most, if not all, of the world's Airbus A380 "super-jumbos" have remained on the ground, too big for the needs of a declining air travel market.
    So much has changed since 1950, that it leaves one wondering what people will be doing in 2050....